# Overview of DM-MVC Configurations #

## MVC Config File ##

Files ending with `.mvc` are MVC config files and contain a variety of DMOs defined by the extgwt schema. There are two broad categories of configuration, structural and behavioral; an overview is given of each category in the following tables.

### Structural Configuration ###

The following objects help define the overall structure of your application. The details of each object is dealt with on its own page.

<table width='820'>

<tr>
<td width='140' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcConfig</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <a href='MVCConfig.md'>MvcConfig</a> definition is the first object specified in a file with a .mvc suffix. It is followed by other DM-MVC definitions as required to define the functionality of the configuration, for example  <code>MvcEvents</code>, <code>MvcControllers</code> and <code>MvcViews</code>.<br>
<br>
Based on the definition of these objects, we can generate base classes for the <code>com.extjs.gxt.ui.client.mvc.Controller</code> and <code>com.extjs.gxt.ui.client.mvc.View</code> that provide some common code required by these classes.<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcEvent</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <a href='MVCEvent.md'>MvcEvent</a> class allows for the definition of events that are  handled or emitted by Views and Controllers. By providing a description, you help to document your application.<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcRegistryItem</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <a href='MVCRegistryItem.md'>MvcRegistryItem</a> defines something that's stored in the Registry.<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcController</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <a href='MVCController.md'>MvcController</a> class allows for the definition of controllers. The abstract controller generated by this definition will automatically register for the events you specify via the handlesEvent attribute. Likewise, it will have a standard handleEvent() method that forwards typed events to abstract handler functions that you'll have to write.<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcView</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <a href='MVCView.md'>MvcView</a> class allows for the definition of views. MvcView<br>
<blockquote>instance are derived from the ExtGWT View class.<br>
</td>
</tr></blockquote>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcMultiView</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The MvcMultiView provides the same functionality as an MvcView, but is intended to allow for the concept of a controller controlling several views of the same type of object. For instance, if you several views of different objects, you would want to be able have a different instance of the view for each object.<br>
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcApplication</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The MvcApplication class allows for the definition of an application that makes uses of the ExtGWT MVC framework. It pulls together the functionality provided by a set of <a href='MVCController.md'>MvcControllers</a>. It also provides the overall logic for your application.<br>
</td>
</tr>

</table>

### Behavioral Configuration ###

<table width='820'>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcAction</code></b>
</td>
<td>
<blockquote>Column 2<br>
</td>
</tr></blockquote>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcMenuBar</code></b>
</td>
<td>
<blockquote>Column 2<br>
</td>
</tr></blockquote>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcToolBar</code></b>
</td>
<td>
<blockquote>Column 2<br>
</td>
</tr></blockquote>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcSubMenu</code></b>
</td>
<td>
<blockquote>Column 2<br>
</td>
</tr></blockquote>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcPopupMenu</code></b>
</td>
<td>
The <code>MvcPopupMenu</code> class is meant to allow for the definition of menus that can be popped up on a variety components, for instance tree nodes and table rows.<br>
<br>
Although implemented as standard com.extjs.gxt.ui.client.widget.menu.Menu instances, the display of popup menus is controlled by the MenuController infrastructure.<br>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td width='120' valign='top'>
<b><code>MvcBackgroundMenu</code></b>
</td>
<td>
<blockquote>Column 2<br>
</td>
</tr>
</table>