#summary How Dark Matter relates to mainstream GWT initiatives.

<wiki:toc />

= Dark Matter: How does it relate to GWT? =

That depends.

I guess I sound like a politician or a lawyer with that remark, but it is entirely truthful. The next few sections should clarify the statement.

== Conformance with GWT JRE Emulation ==

There is nothing in the Dark Matter Core (DMC) classes that has any direct dependence on any Google Web Toolkit related concepts, but all DMC classes and all `DmcType` derivatives (the basis for all attribute types) are intended to conform to the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/2.2/RefJreEmulation.html JRE Emulation] guidelines.

By following these guidelines for the classes that you use as the `primitiveType` in your [DMSTypeDefinition TypeDefinitions], you make your code easily usable in both full Java and GWT operational contexts.

Now, if you don't intend to use [DMDOverview Dark Matter] concepts in conjunction with GWT, feel free to do whatever you want in your base types.

== Support for Base GWT Concepts ==

The next few sections indicate how Dark Matter relates to some specific GWT concepts.

=== GWT RPC ===

If you follow the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/2.2/RefJreEmulation.html JRE Emulation] guidelines, all [DMOOverview DMOs] are usable by themselves or in conjunction with the [DMPOverview Dark Matter Protocol] via the [http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/latest/tutorial/RPC.html GWT RPC] mechanisms.

If you use only [DMSTypeDefinition#Built_in_Types built in types] when defining your [DMSClassDefinition ClassDefinitions] you are guaranteed that your objects will function properly with GWT RPC.

If you ensure that your own types are in accordance with the JRE Emulation guidelines and have *zero arg constructors* (which is the most common oversight when dealing with GWT RPC) then, likewise everything will just work with GWT RPC.

By generating your [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_Old_Java_Object POJOs] using the [DMOGenerator DMO Generator] you remove one more possibility that something will be forgotten and cause your GWT RPC communications to silently fail.

=== GWT MVP ===

Coming soon.

=== GWT `RequestFactory` ===

Coming soon.

== Support for `ExtGWT` Concepts ==

The next few sections indicate how Dark Matter relates to Sencha's `ExtGWT` toolkit, aka GXT.

=== MVC ===